Week 3 - Notes and Resources

- Key Concepts

    Amazon RDS

    Amazon Relational Database service allows you to run a managed db instance with your choice of 
      one of 6 relational database engines such as MySQL which we are using in this class. AWS will 
      patch the software on the instance on your behalf and schedule daily backups. You can run your 
      database privately, within your VPC and can also configure it to run in a multi-AZ deployment.


    Amazon ELB

    Amazon Elastic Load Balancer provides several types of load balancer as a managed service. In this 
      course, we are using Application Load Balancer so that we can isolate users from our application 
      servers. This enables us to operate redundant servers to improve the uptime of our application 
      and in the future, run multiple servers so we can scale our application to handle more users.


    Participate

    This week, feel free to share you favorite, 'my server crashed and I had to recover it' stories in 
      the discussion forums!


    Notes on Hard Drive Failures

    For those who are interested, here's a bit more about dice demo.

    Probability of rolling '1' six times = (1/6)^6 = 2.14E-05

    For the example in the video, we assumed a flat 2% Annualized Failure Rate (AFR) for mechanical hard 
      drives based on publicly available stats from BackBlaze and assumed a constant failure rate over 
      time.

    We can find the daily failure rate (p) by modeling the probability that a given hard drive survives 
      through the end of the year.

    This leads to the following equation: (1-p)^365 = 0.98

    Solving the above for p, we get p = 5.53E-05

    We can see that at an AFR of 2%, a hard drive failure is more than twice as likely as rolling the 
      same number 6 times in a row with dice.

    The failure rate for hard drives may actually be much higher - industry estimates vary and AWS 
      documentation states commodity drives may fail as often as 4% AFR. Put another way, if you have 
      1000 hard drives in your data center, by the end of the year you can expect that 20 - 40 of those 
      drives have failed!

    In practice, the failure rate varies with time.


    Does the hard drive failure rate apply to my application on EC2?

    Not directly as you will typically provision storage volumes for EC2 using Amazon EBS.

    "Amazon EBS volumes are designed for an annual failure rate (AFR) of between 0.1% - 0.2%, where 
      failure refers to a complete or partial loss of the volume, depending on the size and performance 
      of the volume. This makes EBS volumes 20 times more reliable than typical commodity disk drives, 
      which fail with an AFR of around 4%.

    For example, if you have 1,000 EBS volumes running for 1 year, you should expect 1 to 2 will have 
      a failure. EBS also supports a snapshot feature, which is a good way to take point-in-time backups 
      of your data."



- What you accomplished this week

    - You learned how to use a managed database provided by Amazon RDS to store the descriptions and 
        tags of the user images.

    - You also created a load balancer so that you could add redundant copies of your web server to 
        improve the availability and scalability of the application.